content/pages/about.md, before:

+++
title = "About"
path = "about"
subtitle = "Who is this dude"
template = "pages.html"
draft = false
+++

Hello. My name is `Eirik` and this is an attempt to collect my thoughts, and provide the occasional guide to software.

Below contains a bit about me and a brief summary and status of various creative and dexterous endeavours that I am generally happy to spend / have spent time on. The alternate category of endeavours that were a complete waste of time, or things I am remarkably bad at for my age is a much larger and more depressing list, and is left as an exercise to the reader to imagine.

<details><summary><span style="cursor:pointer">Disclaimer</span></summary>

<small>Posts herein are my own opinions and not those of my employer(s). Words like **we** or **us** is often used in the the mathematical (collaborative) sense and does not necessarily mean consensus.
</small>

<small><small>THESE POSTS ARE DISTRIBUTED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE POSTER BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM.
</small></small>
</details>

### Software
For a living, I help automate software operations of modern businesses. Generally, this means integrating existing cloud technologies on kubernetes (`yaml` surgery), but occasionally something new gets written. Last [six](https://github.com/cisco/lal-build-manager/commit/5247fb2755cf936a81ed9e82ff6b7bbc0af8a03a) years have featured a lot of [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) due to its safety guarantees and great ecosystem, but [also like to dabble](https://github.com/clux/magic-forest).

From my [github](https://github.com/clux?tab=repositories):

- [kube](https://github.com/kube-rs/kube) :: a kubernetes client and controller runtime for rust
- [muslrust](https://github.com/clux/muslrust) :: a `x86_64-unknown-linux-musl` build image for the cloud
- [tournament](https://github.com/clux/tournament) :: a suite of modules for managing state and lifecycles of competitions


These days, **[kube](https://github.com/kube-rs/kube)** - which has grown from a personal yak to a cornerstone of the kubernetes rust ecosystem - takes most of my available open source times. See the [kubernetes tagged posts](/tags/kubernetes) for that.

Past colleagues might remember me from these overly ambitious work projects:

- 2018 [babylon/shipcat](https://github.com/clux/shipcat) :: a typed config management system for kubernetes microservices (a deployment tool they liked so much, [they un-opensourced it](https://twitter.com/sszynrae/status/1522589153384349697))
- 2016 [cisco/lal](https://github.com/cisco/lal-build-manager) :: a language agnostic build system (the [old build team](https://github.com/orgs/lalbuild/people) technically has a [fork](https://github.com/lalbuild/lal), but most of our `C` days are over)

### Roleplaying

After having spent one yule sick binging Critical Role, I ended up DMing a near 4 year D&D campaign after work. This [concluded](/post/2021-12-05-campaign-concluded/) in pandemic times, and was a large part of my sanity in that period. Am currently absolved from further dubious plot juggling and a campaign related [todos](https://github.com/clux/facemaulers/search?q=TODO), but plan on resuming [roleplaying](/categories/roleplaying/) shenanigans at some point.

### Education
There exists a dusty, but laminated piece of paper with `Master of Mathematics` on it. While no one has ever asked to look at it, it keeps being featured on my [resume](http://clux.github.io/vitae/).

This esoteric + deteriorating knowledge is mostly used to over-excitedly tell people about group theory, and the importance of good abstractions, but I also solve basic arithmetic at work. All in all; a solid use of `4` years.

### Music

As a kid, I played violin for a decade. Have got a couple of things to show for this; near perfect recollection of the solo-violinists repertoire, an intense desire to follow violin competitions, and a history of being a good target for bullying.

Nowadays, my [2017 p-series](https://uk.yamaha.com/en/products/musical_instruments/pianos/p_series/index.html) is my weapon of choice, and is helping me recover from violin trauma. It also continues my habit of committing useless chunks of finger movement to muscle memory, but comes with the side-effect of making me watch piano competitions.

<small>If you are considering buying a violin for yourself/someone. Buy an `otamatone` first to see if you think you can [handle](https://www.stoppingpoints.com/devils-dictionary/fiddle.html) listening to someone wrangling with a fretless, non-linear interface for years. The instrument UX is terrible. You deserve better.</small>

### Gaming
Well designed game mechanics that require some type of dexterous mastery, or hit a particularly large nerd-sniping target, have frequently drawn me in. Here's some stuff I spent time on over the years..

#### No death runs
- [`Celeste`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/504230/Celeste/) 200: [Core B](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I8nM80nDYuc) / [Summit B](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6NgrGqRG_8g) (2019)
- [`Necrodancer`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/247080/Crypt_of_the_NecroDancer/): [bolt low%](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y1d6hoN9DoM) / [classic stats](https://crypt.toofz.com/p/76561198007590148/classic/classic) (mostly bolt, but did all chars)
- [`Super Meat Boy`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/40800/Super_Meat_Boy/) iron man: [Cotton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZeFFwkCLN8) / [Dark Cotton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgptqlVQGSM) (2014)

#### FPS

- [`Borderlands 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/49520/Borderlands_2/): coop speedrunning and digistruct raids
- [`Team Fortress 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/440/Team_Fortress_2/): stress testing [weird weapons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVzOLtpO6fU&list=PL4gj5XjL6RRQecS059_tjxRQ4Lu6yUNqB) like the [bison](https://www.reddit.com/r/bisonmasterrace/) in ~2016
- [`Quake 3`](http://www.orangesmoothie.org/tourneyQ3A/) / [`promode`](https://playmorepromode.com/) with `VSE` + `X-Pec` + `Team Norway`; made [highlights](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GD3aTJ_jzL8&list=PL4gj5XjL6RRRavXh2KGXQZnRuD-zhE4-k) ~2002

#### Theorycraft

- [`Dungeon Siege 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/39200/Dungeon_Siege_II/): found a [mathematical solution to a dungeon](/post/2006-08-09-vault-of-therayne/) in 2006
- [`Baldur's Gate 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/257350/Baldurs_Gate_II_Enhanced_Edition/): explored the [statistics behind character creation](/post/2022-04-12-baldurs-roll/) in 2022

#### Speedruns

- [`Trine`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/35700/Trine_Enchanted_Edition/) [segmented NG+ speedrun](http://speeddemosarchive.com/Trine.html) ([playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45T7-Avb5vQ&list=PLDCA837F2416D427B)) in 2010
- [`N`](http://www.metanetsoftware.com/games/n) tons of former WRs; `70-0` won [run of the year](http://n.wikia.com/wiki/The_Dronies) in 2007 ([n.wikia/clux](http://n.wikia.com/wiki/Clux))
- [`TrackMania United`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/7200/Trackmania_United_Forever_Star_Edition/) handful of former stunt/platform mode WRs in [tmx replays](https://united.tm-exchange.com/main.aspx?action=tracksearch&mode=7&id=1273332)
- [`Minesweeper`](http://www.minesweeper.info/downloads/MinesweeperClone.html) [rank #3 Norway Time](https://minesweepergame.com/country-rankings.php?country=132): [`53s` expert](http://www.minesweeper.info/members/files/3552/EirikAlbrigtsen54,49-119-110607.mvf) in 2007

#### Current
These days it's generally tabletop, but some **cooperative** shooters or platformers remain fun. [Steam profile](https://steamcommunity.com/id/sszynrae). [Linux only](https://store.steampowered.com/linux) (with [Proton](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/Proton)) since 2017.

Commit message:

update some posts
Signed-off-by: clux <sszynrae@gmail.com>

content/pages/about.md, after:

+++
title = "About"
path = "about"
subtitle = "Who is this dude"
template = "pages.html"
draft = false
+++

Hello. My name is `Eirik` and this is an attempt to collect my thoughts, and provide the occasional guide to software.

Below contains a bit about me and a brief summary and status of various creative and dexterous endeavours that I am generally happy to spend / have spent time on. The alternate category of endeavours that were a complete waste of time, or things I am remarkably bad at for my age is a much larger and more depressing list, and is left as an exercise to the reader to imagine.

<details><summary><span style="cursor:pointer">Disclaimer</span></summary>

<small>Posts herein are my own opinions and not those of my employer(s). Words like **we** or **us** is often used in the the mathematical (collaborative) sense and does not necessarily mean consensus.
</small>

<small><small>THESE POSTS ARE DISTRIBUTED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE POSTER BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM.
</small></small>
</details>

### Software
For a living, I help automate software operations of modern businesses. Generally, this means integrating existing cloud technologies on Kubernetes via `yaml` surgery, but occasionally something new gets written. Last [six](https://github.com/cisco/lal-build-manager/commit/5247fb2755cf936a81ed9e82ff6b7bbc0af8a03a) years have featured a lot of [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) due to its safety guarantees and great ecosystem, but [also like to dabble](https://github.com/clux/magic-forest).

From my [github](https://github.com/clux?tab=repositories):

- [kube](https://github.com/kube-rs/kube) :: a kubernetes client and controller runtime for rust
- [muslrust](https://github.com/clux/muslrust) :: a `x86_64-unknown-linux-musl` build image for the cloud
- [tournament](https://github.com/clux/tournament) :: a suite of modules for managing state and lifecycles of competitions

These days, **[kube](https://github.com/kube-rs/kube)** - which has grown from a personal yak to a cornerstone of the kubernetes rust ecosystem - takes most of my available open source times. I used to [blog about it](/tags/kubernetes), but now this stuff ends up at [kube.rs](https://kube.rs) and my blog is not the best place for it.

Past colleagues might remember me from these overly ambitious work projects:

- 2018 [babylon/shipcat](https://github.com/clux/shipcat) :: babylon's helmfile like microservice system ([safety fork](https://github.com/clux/shipcat) - was needed lol)
- 2016 [cisco/lal](https://github.com/cisco/lal-build-manager) :: a language agnostic docker based build system ([safety fork](https://github.com/lalbuild/lal) by the [old build team](https://github.com/orgs/lalbuild/people))

### Roleplaying

After having spent one yule sick binging Critical Role, I ended up DMing a near 4 year D&D campaign after work. This [concluded](/post/2021-12-05-campaign-concluded/) in pandemic times, and was a large part of my sanity in that period. Am currently absolved from further dubious plot juggling and a campaign related [todos](https://github.com/clux/facemaulers/search?q=TODO), but plan on resuming [roleplaying](/categories/roleplaying/) shenanigans at some point.

### Education
There exists a dusty, but laminated piece of paper with `Master of Mathematics` on it. While no one has ever asked to look at it, it keeps being featured on my [resume](http://clux.github.io/vitae/).

This esoteric + deteriorating knowledge is mostly used to over-excitedly tell people about group theory, and the importance of good abstractions, but I also solve basic arithmetic at work. All in all; a solid use of `4` years.

### Music

As a kid, I played violin for a decade. Have got a couple of things to show for this; near perfect recollection of the solo-violinists repertoire, an intense desire to follow violin competitions, and a history of being a good target for bullying.

Nowadays, my [2017 p-series](https://uk.yamaha.com/en/products/musical_instruments/pianos/p_series/index.html) is my weapon of choice, and is helping me recover from violin trauma. It also continues my habit of committing useless chunks of finger movement to muscle memory, but comes with the side-effect of making me watch piano competitions.

<small>If you are considering buying a violin for yourself/someone. Buy an `otamatone` first to see if you think you can [handle](https://www.stoppingpoints.com/devils-dictionary/fiddle.html) listening to someone wrangling with a fretless, non-linear interface for years. The instrument UX is terrible. You deserve better.</small>

### Gaming
Well designed game mechanics that require some type of dexterous mastery, or hit a particularly large nerd-sniping target, have frequently drawn me in. Here's some stuff I spent time on over the years..

#### No death runs
- [`Celeste`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/504230/Celeste/) 200: [Core B](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I8nM80nDYuc) / [Summit B](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6NgrGqRG_8g) (2019)
- [`Necrodancer`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/247080/Crypt_of_the_NecroDancer/): [bolt low%](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y1d6hoN9DoM) / [classic stats](https://crypt.toofz.com/p/76561198007590148/classic/classic) (mostly bolt, but did all chars)
- [`Super Meat Boy`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/40800/Super_Meat_Boy/) iron man: [Cotton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZeFFwkCLN8) / [Dark Cotton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgptqlVQGSM) (2014)

#### FPS

- [`Borderlands 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/49520/Borderlands_2/): coop speedrunning and digistruct raids
- [`Team Fortress 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/440/Team_Fortress_2/): stress testing [weird weapons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVzOLtpO6fU&list=PL4gj5XjL6RRQecS059_tjxRQ4Lu6yUNqB) like the [bison](https://www.reddit.com/r/bisonmasterrace/) in ~2016
- [`Quake 3`](http://www.orangesmoothie.org/tourneyQ3A/) / [`promode`](https://playmorepromode.com/) with `VSE` + `X-Pec` + `Team Norway`; made [highlights](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GD3aTJ_jzL8&list=PL4gj5XjL6RRRavXh2KGXQZnRuD-zhE4-k) ~2002

#### Theorycraft

- [`Dungeon Siege 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/39200/Dungeon_Siege_II/): found a [mathematical solution to a dungeon](/post/2006-08-09-vault-of-therayne/) in 2006
- [`Baldur's Gate 2`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/257350/Baldurs_Gate_II_Enhanced_Edition/): explored the [statistics behind character creation](/post/2022-04-12-baldurs-roll/) in 2022

#### Speedruns

- [`Trine`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/35700/Trine_Enchanted_Edition/) [segmented NG+ speedrun](http://speeddemosarchive.com/Trine.html) ([playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45T7-Avb5vQ&list=PLDCA837F2416D427B)) in 2010
- [`N`](http://www.metanetsoftware.com/games/n) tons of former WRs; `70-0` won [run of the year](http://n.wikia.com/wiki/The_Dronies) in 2007 ([n.wikia/clux](http://n.wikia.com/wiki/Clux))
- [`TrackMania United`](https://store.steampowered.com/app/7200/Trackmania_United_Forever_Star_Edition/) handful of former stunt/platform mode WRs in [tmx replays](https://united.tm-exchange.com/main.aspx?action=tracksearch&mode=7&id=1273332)
- [`Minesweeper`](http://www.minesweeper.info/downloads/MinesweeperClone.html) [rank #3 Norway Time](https://minesweepergame.com/country-rankings.php?country=132): [`53s` expert](http://www.minesweeper.info/members/files/3552/EirikAlbrigtsen54,49-119-110607.mvf) in 2007

#### Current
These days it's generally tabletop, but some **cooperative** shooters or platformers remain fun. [Steam profile](https://steamcommunity.com/id/sszynrae). [Linux only](https://store.steampowered.com/linux) (with [Proton](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/Proton)) since 2017.
